Lab 4.1: Securing VPC Resources by Using Security Groups
Lab overview and objectives
Security groups are virtual firewalls that are attached to Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instances. Security group rules define what traffic is allowed in or out of an instance. In this lab, you are tasked to configure access rules for EC2 instances.

After completing this lab, you should be able to do the following:

Examine security groups to determine what traffic is allowed.
Change which security groups are applied to EC2 instances.
Create new security groups.
Update the inbound rules on security groups to follow the principle of least privilege.
Understand how security groups can reference other security groups.
Configure a network access control list (ACL) to block traffic on a specific TCP port.
Connect to an instance in a private subnet by using SSH.
Connect to an instance in a private subnet by using AWS Systems Manager Session Manager.
Duration
This lab will require approximately 90 minutes to complete.

 

AWS service restrictions
In this lab environment, access to AWS services and service actions might be restricted to the ones that are needed to complete the lab instructions. You might encounter errors if you attempt to access other services or perform actions beyond the ones that are described in this lab.

 

Scenario
The lab environment includes a fully functional virtual private cloud (VPC) with multiple subnets, route tables, an internet gateway, a NAT gateway, and multiple security groups. In addition, three EC2 Linux instances have been launched into different subnets: two into public subnets and one into a private subnet. The instances in the public subnets are configured as proxy servers to forward traffic to the application server in the private subnet. You will connect to the proxy instances by using a web browser to test connectivity to the private application server to verify how security groups restrict access.

The following diagram shows the architecture that was created for you in the AWS account at the beginning of the lab.

Architecture diagram at start of the lab

 

 

Accessing the AWS Management Console
At the top of these instructions, choose  Start Lab.

The lab session starts.

A timer displays at the top of the page and shows the time remaining in the session.

 Tip: To refresh the session length at any time, choose  Start Lab again before the timer reaches 00:00.

Before you continue, wait until the circle icon to the right of the AWS  link in the upper-left corner turns green. When the lab environment is ready, the AWS Details panel will also display.

To connect to the AWS Management Console, choose the AWS link in the upper-left corner, above the terminal window.

A new browser tab opens and connects you to the console.

 Tip: If a new browser tab does not open, a banner or icon is usually at the top of your browser with the message that your browser is preventing the site from opening pop-up windows. Choose the banner or icon, and then choose Allow pop-ups.

 

Task 1: Analyzing the VPC and private subnet resource settings
In this first task, you will explore the resources configured in the LabVPC, so that you will be familiar with its current network settings.

 

In the AWS Management Console, in the search box to the right of  Services, search for and choose VPC to open the Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) console.
 

Analyze the LabVPC and the subnets configured in it.

In the navigation pane, choose Your VPCs.

The AWS Region that you are currently observing has two VPCs. One is the default VPC, which has a CIDR range of 172.31.0.0/16. The other is named LabVPC and has a CIDR range of 10.0.0.0/16. You will use the LabVPC in this lab.

In the navigation pane, choose Subnets.

In the subnets list, choose the VPC column header to organize the subnets by VPC, as shown in the following image.

LabVPC subnets listed at the top of the subnets list

Notice that LabVPC has three subnets defined in it. They are named PrivateSubnet, PublicSubnetA, and PublicSubnetB, and each one has a unique CIDR range of private IPv4 addresses assigned to it.

 

Analyze the routing details that apply to EC2 instances in the PrivateSubnet, and change the name of the route table.

Select the checkbox for PrivateSubnet, and then in the lower pane, choose the Route table tab.

Above the list of routes, choose the link for the route table that is associated with this subnet.

Choose the Routes tab.

Notice that all IP addresses in the LabVPC CIDR range (10.0.0.0/16) will be routed to local targets within the VPC. All other traffic (0.0.0.0/0) will be routed to a NAT gateway.

 Note: If 0.0.0.0/0 traffic for this subnet was instead routed to an internet gateway, then you would know that it is a public subnet with direct access to the internet. Instead, it routes network traffic to a NAT gateway.

Choose the Tags tab, and then choose Manage tags.

Change the name of the route table from changeme to Private and then choose Save.

Choose the Routes tab, and then choose the nat-xxxxxx link, which is the target for non-local traffic.

On the Details tab, notice that this NAT gateway runs in PublicSubnetA. Therefore, any internet-bound traffic initiated from instances in the PrivateSubnet will be routed to a NAT gateway in PublicSubnetA.

Detailed analysis: The NAT gateway provides access out to the internet for instances in the private subnet. However, responses to such requests from computers on the internet will not know the IP address of the server in the private subnet that makes the request. Instead, the internet gateway will route received responses back to the NAT gateway, and the NAT gateway will route the responses to the requesting server. In this way, the servers in the private subnet are not directly connected to the internet, and their IP addresses are not known to computers on the internet. However, the servers in the private subnet can still communicate out to the internet and have responses routed back to them. The following diagram shows this architecture.

LabVPC private subnet routing

 

Observe details about the AppServer EC2 instance, which is in the PrivateSubnet, and its associated security group.

In the console, in the search box to the right of to  Services, search for and choose EC2.
 Important: Right-click the EC2 service in the results to open the Amazon EC2 console in a new browser tab.

 Tip: Keep the Amazon VPC console and Amazon EC2 console browser tabs open throughout this lab. You will use both of them in later steps.

In the Amazon EC2 console, in the navigation pane, choose Instances.

Select the AppServer instance, and on the Details tab:

Notice that this instance is running in the PrivateSubnet.

Also notice that it has a private IPv4 address, but it does not have a public IPv4 address.

 Note: A private IPv4 address is an IP address that's not reachable over the Internet.  Private IPv4 addresses can be used for communication between instances in the same VPC.

Choose the Security tab, and then choose the link of the security group that is associated with this instance. The security group name contains AppServerSG.

Choose the Inbound rules tab, and notice that a rule has been defined. HTTP traffic over TCP port 80 with a source of 0.0.0.0/0 (anywhere) is allowed.

 Tip: You might need to scroll the inbound rules table to the right to see all of these details.

 Note:

This means that any instance that has the AppServerSG security group attached to it can receive connections from any computer that attempts to communicate with it on TCP port 80.
By default, when you create a security group, it does not have any inbound rules, which means that inbound network traffic is not permitted. However, this security group has one inbound rule defined.
Security groups are stateful. This means that if an instance sends a request, the response traffic for that request is allowed in regardless of inbound security group rules.
Choose the Outbound rules tab.

Notice that all outbound traffic is allowed. This is the default setting for security groups.

Now that you have analyzed the private subnet settings, you will look at the same details for the public subnets.

 

Task 2: Analyzing the public subnet resource settings
In this task, you will analyze the networking, routing, and security settings in the public subnets of the VPC.

 

In the Amazon VPC console, analyze the routing details that affect EC2 instances in PublicSubnetA.

Return to the browser tab where the Amazon VPC console is open.

In the navigation pane, choose Subnets, and then select PublicSubnetA.

 Note: If necessary, clear the checkbox for PrivateSubnet. If more than one item is selected in the list, then the Details tab and other tabs will not display below. Keep this in mind throughout the lab.

Choose the Route table tab.

Notice that this public subnet route table routes 0.0.0.0/0 traffic to an internet gateway.

 Note: This subnet is called a public subnet because it is configured to route non-local traffic to an internet gateway.

Choose the igw-xxxxx link, which is the target for non-local traffic.

On the Details tab, notice that this internet gateway is associated with the LabVPC.

 

Observe details about the ProxyServer1 instance, which is running in PublicSubnetA, and its associated security group.

Return to the browser tab where the Amazon EC2 console is open.

In the navigation pane, choose Instances.

Select the ProxyServer1 instance, and then choose the Details tab.

Notice that, unlike the AppServer instance that runs in a private subnet, this server runs in a public subnet and has a public IPv4 address.

Choose the Security tab.

Notice that a security group with ProxySG in its name is associated with this EC2 instance. As you can see in the Inbound rules section, the security group allows inbound traffic on TCP port 80 from any source.

 

Observe details about the ProxyServer2 instance, which is running in PublicSubnetB, and its associated security group.

Select the ProxyServer2 instance.

Notice that this server runs in PublicSubnetB and has a public IPv4 address.

Choose the Security tab. Notice that a security group with ProxySG2 in its name is associated with this EC2 instance.

 

Add a new inbound rule to the ProxySG2 security group.

Choose the link for the ProxySG2 security group.

Choose the Inbound rules tab, and then choose Edit inbound rules.

Choose Add rule, and configure as follows:

Type: Choose HTTP.
Source: Choose Anywhere-IPv4.
Choose Save rules.

 Note: Each security group can be configured differently, even though you just configured the inbound rule settings for ProxySG2 to match the ones found in ProxySG. This means that you are able to independently configure how each instance or group of instances can be accessed.

The following diagram shows the updated subnet routing. ProxyServer1 is associated with ProxySG, while ProxyServer2 is associated with ProxySG2. However, both security groups have the same inbound rules now.

LabVPC public subnet routing

 

 Note: When you associate a security group with an instance, you are actually assigning it to an elastic network interface on the instance. Many EC2 instances have one network interface, but an instance can have multiple network interfaces. You can attach a different security group to each network interface on an instance for different access behavior depending on the network connection.

In the next task, you will test connectivity to a webpage that is running on the AppServer. Later in the lab, you will modify security group rules and change which instances they are attached to.

 

Task 3: Testing HTTP connectivity from public EC2 instances
In this task, you connect to the different instances that have been provisioned as part of your lab environment. Currently, all three security groups are configured to allow connections over TCP port 80 from all traffic sources.

The proxy servers are located in public subnets, which are accessible from the internet. The application server is located in a private subnet and is only accessible from servers located inside the VPC, either in a public or private subnet. To connect to the AppServer instance's web server, you will first connect to one of the proxy servers, which are both configured to forward TCP traffic on port 80 to the AppServer.

 

Access the ProxyServer1 public IP address to test loading a webpage that is hosted on the AppServer.

In the Amazon EC2 console, in the navigation pane, choose Instances, and then select the ProxyServer1 instance.

On the Details tab below, copy the Public IPv4 address, and paste it in a new browser tab.

The website that loads is actually hosted on the application server. You are able to access it because ProxyServer1 is configured to forward all TCP port 80 traffic to the AppServer, and both the ProxySG security group and the AppServerSG security group are configured to allow the inbound traffic.

 

Use the same method from the previous step to test loading a webpage by accessing the ProxyServer2 public IPv4 address.

The website that loads is the same as the one you opened when you accessed the public IP address for ProxyServer1. This confirms that both ProxyServer1 and ProxyServer2 have access to the web server that is running on the AppServer instance.

 

Close both tabs where the application server website is open.

 Note: Keep the Amazon VPC console and Amazon EC2 console tabs open to use in later steps.

In the next task, you will update the AppServer security group to restrict access to the AppServer.

 

Task 4: Restricting HTTP access by using an IP address
In this task, you will update the AppServerSG security group to only allow access from a single internal IP address, as shown in the following diagram. After the update, you will test access again.

Diagram with access to the AppServer restricted to ProxyServer2

 

Copy the ProxyServer1 private IPv4 address, which you will need to complete the next step.

You could find this value in the Amazon EC2 console. However, for convenience, you can access this and other environment values that you will need in this lab by choosing the  AWS Details link above these instructions.

Copy the ProxyServer1PrivateIP address to your clipboard.

 Note: The IP address starts with 10.0.1.

 

Edit the AppServerSG security group inbound rules.

In the Amazon EC2 console, in the navigation pane, choose Security Groups.

 Note: You can access security groups from both the Amazon VPC and Amazon EC2 consoles.

Select the AppServerSG security group.

Choose the Inbound rules tab, and then choose Edit inbound rules.

Modify the HTTP rule as follows:

In the Source field, delete 0.0.0.0/0 by choosing the X icon.
Next, paste the ProxyServer1PrivateIP value from the lab instructions into the Source field.
After pasting, add /32 to the end of the IP address.
Choose Save rules.

You have now updated the security group attached to the application server so that it will only allow TCP port 80 traffic from ProxyServer1.

 

Test website access again by loading the ProxyServer1 public IP address in a browser tab.

Choose the  AWS Details link above these instructions, copy the ProxyServer1PublicIP value, and then paste it in a new browser tab.

 Note: If you kept the browser tab open from testing before, perform a hard refresh of the browser tab to ensure that the website is not loading from local cache.

The website that loads is again the application server.

You are still able to access the application server webpage from ProxyServer1 because the server is still forwarding the traffic, and the AppServerSG security group recognizes the source of the request as ProxyServer1.

 

Test website access again by using the ProxyServer2 public IP address.

Choose the  AWS Details link above these instructions, copy the ProxyServer2PublicIP value, and then paste it in a new browser tab.

The website fails to load. If you wait long enough (not a requirement), after about 2 minutes, your browser will display a connection timeout error. This is expected because the AppServer's security group only allows traffic from the IP address that is assigned to ProxyServer1 and rejects traffic from any other source.

 Note: If the website loads, perform a hard refresh of the browser tab to ensure that the website is not loading from local cache.

Close both tabs where the application server website is open.

 Note: Keep the Amazon VPC console and Amazon EC2 console tabs open to use in later steps.

 

In this task, you modified a security group to only allow incoming access from a single source IP address. In the next task, you will modify the AppServerSG security group to allow traffic from any EC2 instance in the LabVPC that has a specific security group attached.

 

Task 5: Scaling restricted HTTP access by referencing a security group
You have decided to turn ProxyServer2 into another proxy host to create redundancy. What is the simplest way to give this server and any additional future servers the same access permissions that are currently assigned to ProxyServer1?

You could use an IP address as the source in a security group as demonstrated in the previous task. However, you would need to hardcode the IP address of every instance that will act as a proxy server in the inbound rules of the security group. The simplest, and most secure way, to deploy the same access permissions for multiple hosts is to reference a security group name as the inbound source rather than individual IP addresses.

Up to this point, the lab has focused on the security group associated with the application server. Now you will look at the security group assigned to the ProxyServer2 host. You can reference the ProxySG security group as the incoming source for HTTP connections to the application server. This means that any instance that is assigned the ProxySG security group will be granted permissions to send HTTP traffic over port 80 to the application server.

The following diagram reflects how the security groups and subnet routing will be set up after you complete this task.

Diagram with both proxy servers associated with ProxySG, which means they can both communicate with the AppServer

 

Modify the AppServerSG inbound rules once more so that the allowed source for HTTP traffic is the ProxySG security group instead of the ProxyServer1 internal IP address.

In the Amazon EC2 console, choose Security Groups.

Select the AppServerSG group.

Choose the Inbound rules tab, and then choose Edit inbound rules.

Delete the existing inbound rule that you modified earlier.

Choose Add rule, and configure as follows:

Type: Choose HTTP.
Source: Choose Custom.
In the Source field, enter sg
When the dropdown list of existing security groups appears, choose the ProxySG security group.
Choose Save rules.

You have now updated the security group attached to the application server so that it will only allow traffic from instances with ProxySG attached.

 

Adjust which security group is attached to the ProxyServer2 instance.

Still in the Amazon EC2 console, in the navigation pane, choose Instances.

Select the ProxyServer2 instance.

Choose the Actions menu in the upper-right corner, and then choose Security > Change security groups.

Remove the ProxySG2 security group.

In the search box, search for and choose the ProxySG security group.

Choose Add security group, and then choose Save.

Now that you have updated the configuration, test to see which hosts are able to access the application server instance.

 

Test accessing the website from ProxyServer1.

Choose the  AWS Details link above these instructions, copy the ProxyServer1PublicIP value, and then paste it in a new browser tab.

The website loads.

 

Test accessing the website from ProxyServer2, which is now in the same security group as ProxyServer1.

Choose the  AWS Details link above these instructions, copy the ProxyServer2PublicIP value, and then paste it in a new browser tab.

The website loads.

 Note: If the website does not load, perform a hard refresh of the browser tab.

 

Close both tabs where the application server website is open.

 Note: Keep the Amazon VPC console and Amazon EC2 console tabs open to use in later steps.

 

In this task, you updated the AppServerSG security group to allow traffic from any instances associated with the ProxySG security group. Then, you updated the security group attached to the ProxyServer2 instance to be ProxySG, which is also attached to the ProxyServer1 instance. Therefore, both proxy servers can now connect to the application server, and you don't need to maintain a list of approved source IP addresses in the security group settings.

 

Task 6: Restricting HTTP access by using a network ACL
Security groups are not the only method that you can use to secure access to network ports. In this task, you will explore how to use network ACLs to control access to EC2 instances in a VPC.

 

Add a new inbound rule on the LabVPC network ACL to deny all inbound traffic on port 80.

Return to the browser tab where the Amazon VPC console is open.

In the navigation pane, choose Network ACLs.

Select the network ACL that is associated with LabVPC.

Choose the Inbound rules tab, and then choose Edit inbound rules.

Choose Add new rule, and configure as follows:

Rule number: Enter 99
Type: Choose HTTP.
Allow/Deny: Choose Deny.
Choose Save changes.
 

Test accessing the website from ProxyServer1.

Choose the  AWS Details link above these instructions, copy the ProxyServer1PublicIP value, and then paste it in a new browser tab.

After a few moments, the connection times out.

 Note: If the website loads, perform a hard refresh of the browser tab.

Analysis: The network ACL rule that you created blocks all connection attempts on port 80 to any EC2 instance running in the VPC. The ProxySG security group allows inbound port 80 traffic, but the connection fails because both the network ACL and security group would need to allow it.

Close the tab where you tried to load the application server website.

 

Add another rule to the network ACL.

In the Amazon VPC console, with the LabVPC network ACL still selected, choose Edit inbound rules.

Choose Add new rule and configure as described:

Rule number: Enter 98
Type: Choose HTTP.
Allow/Deny: Choose Allow.
Choose Save changes.
 

Test accessing the website from ProxyServer1 again.

Choose the  AWS Details link above these instructions, copy the ProxyServer1PublicIP value, and then paste it in a new browser tab.

The website loads.

Analysis: All rules defined in a network ACL have a rule number. Rules are evaluated in order, starting with the lowest numbered rule. When a rule matches traffic, it's applied regardless of any higher numbered rule that might contradict it.

Close the tab where you loaded the application server website.

				

 

Task 7: Connecting to the AppServer by using a bastion host and SSH
In this next task, you will begin to explore how you can connect to the AppServer terminal. In this task, you will use an SSH key to connect to a server in PublicSubnetB by using SSH over TCP port 22. Then, by using SSH port forwarding, you will then be able to connect to the AppServer, which is running in the private subnet.

 

Rename the ProxyServer2 EC2 instance.

In the Amazon EC2 console, choose Instances, and then select the ProxyServer2 instance.

In the Name column, place your cursor over ProxyServer2, and then choose the edit icon that appears.

Rename the server as Bastion and choose Save.

 Note: A bastion host (also called a jump server) is a server that provides access to a private network from an external network, such as the internet. In a real-world scenario, you would launch a new security-hardened EC2 instance to act as a bastion host. However, for the sake of demonstration in this lab, you will repurpose ProxyServer2 to become a bastion host.

      

Create a new security group with port 22 open for the bastion host.

In the navigation pane, choose Security Groups.

Choose Create security group, and configure as follows:

Security group name: Enter BastionSG

Description: Enter BastionSG

VPC: Remove the currently selected VPC by choosing the X icon. Then, choose LabVPC.

In the Inbound rules section, choose Add rule, and configure as follows:

Type: Choose SSH.
Source: Choose Anywhere-IPv4.
At the bottom of the page, choose Create security group.

    

Update the bastion host instance settings to use the BastionSG security group.

In the navigation pane, choose Instances.

Select the Bastion instance.

Choose Actions > Security > Change security groups.

Remove the ProxySG security group.

In the search box, search for and choose the BastionSG security group.

Choose Add security group, and then choose Save.

 

Edit the inbound rules for the AppServerSG security group to allow traffic from the bastion host.

Choose the  AWS Details link above these instructions, and copy the BastionPrivateIP value.

In the Amazon EC2 console, in the navigation pane, choose Security Groups.

Select the AppServerSG security group.

Choose the Inbound rules tab, and then choose Edit inbound rules.

Choose Add rule, and configure as follows:

Type: Choose SSH.
Source: Choose Custom.
Next, paste the BastionPrivateIP value from the lab instructions into the Source field.
After pasting, add /32 to the end of the IP address.
Choose Save rules.

You have now updated the security group that is attached to the application server so that it will allow SSH connections on port 22 from the bastion host.

 

Connect to the bastion host by using SSH.

In the terminal panel next to these instructions, run the following two commands.


exec ssh-agent bash
ssh-add ~/.ssh/labsuser.pem
 Note: The first command activates the ssh-agent tool on this Ubuntu machine, which exists outside the lab AWS account. The second command adds the SSH key to the agent. Both the bastion host and AppServer will accept the labsuser.pem SSH key for SSH connection requests.

Next, to connect to the bastion instance, run the following command. Replace <BastionPublicIP> with the BastionPublicIP value, which you can find by choosing the  AWS Details link above these instructions.


ssh -i ~/.ssh/labsuser.pem -A ec2-user@<BastionPublicIP>
When prompted if you are sure you want to connect, enter yes

 Tip: Notice that the command prompt now reads [ec2-user@bastion] which indicates that you are now connected to the bastion instance.

 

Connect to the AppServer through SSH by forwarding the authenticated connection.

Run the following command. Replace <AppServerPrivateIP> with the AppServerPrivateIP value, which you can find by choosing the  AWS Details link above these instructions.


ssh ec2-user@<AppServerPrivateIP>
When prompted if you are sure you want to connect, enter yes

You are now connected to the AppServer.

 Tip: Notice that the command prompt now reads [ec2-user@appserver] which indicates that you are now connected to the AppServer instance.

To create a file to prove that you connected to the AppServer instance, run the following command. (The presence of this file will be verified when you submit the lab.)


touch newfile.txt
Detailed analysis: You were able to connect to a server in a private subnet because, when you issued the ssh command from the Ubuntu server outside the account, you included -A in the command. This enables the authenticated agent connection to be forwarded.

The labsuser.pem SSH key is not stored on the bastion host, but the SSH session that you successfully opened from the outside server to the bastion host included it. The AppServer's SSH settings are configured to accept the same labsuser.pem SSH key.

Furthermore, the connection to the AppServer was made by way of the bastion host, which you configured in the inbound rules of the AppServerSG security group as an acceptable source for SSH connections. Therefore, the connection was successful. Importantly, by using this approach, you avoided storing the SSH key on the bastion host, which is not a good security practice.

The following diagram shows the configuration that you just configured and used.

 

Diagram of Ubuntu server connecting the bastion host, which then connects to the AppServer

 

In the terminal, to disconnect from the AppServer, run the exit command.

 Tip: Notice that the command prompt now reads [ec2-user@bastion] which indicates that you dropped the connection to the AppServer and are again back on the bastion instance.

 

To disconnect from the bastion server, run the exit command.

Notice that the prompt now shows you are connected to the Ubuntu terminal (as indicated by @runweb in the prompt). The Ubuntu server exists outside the AWS account.

 

Could you connect to an EC2 instance in a VPC, even an instance in a private subnet, without opening the SSH port? In the next task, you will explore how to use Systems Manager Session Manager to access instances in private subnets without having to use a bastion host.

 

Task 8: Connecting directly to a host in a private subnet by using Session Manager
What should you do if you need to modify configuration settings for your application server? You would need to connect to one of the servers in a public subnet (often called a bastion host or jump box) and use that to connect to the server in the private subnet.

Because your instances are located in the AWS Cloud, you can use the Systems Manager Session Manager to connect directly to an instance without opening port 22 for SSH or connecting through another server in a public subnet first. For this to work, the Session Manager agent must be installed on the target host. Amazon Linux EC2 instances already have the Session Manager agent installed. You can connect with Session Manager by using a URL through a browser, as you have been doing in this lab, or through the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI).

Using a bastion host is a best practice in a VPC network, but using Session Manager can be an alternative to setting up and maintaining a bastion host. By using Session Manager, AWS is doing the heavy lifting of securing the connection and managing a secure, redundant bastion host configuration. This also gives you the ability to use AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) to grant access to users, and creates an auditable logging trail when integrated with AWS CloudTrail and Amazon CloudWatch.

In this task, you will directly connect to the application instance, which is not internet accessible. You will use Session Manager, as shown in the following diagram.

Diagram of using Session Manager to directly connect to the AppServer

 

Connect to the AppServer by using Session Manager.

In the browser tab where the Amazon EC2 console is open, choose Instances.

Select AppServer, and choose Connect in the upper-right corner.

Choose the Session Manager tab, and then choose Connect.

A new browser tab opens, and you are connected to the AppServer terminal with a sh-4.2 prompt.

You are now connected into an SSH session on the application server without having to use a bastion host. Recall also that the network ACL rule blocking traffic on port 22 is still configured.

 

To modify the website hosted on this server, run the following command:


sudo sed -i 's/instance!/instance! Session manager was used to edit this file./g' /var/www/html/index.html
 

Test access to the webpage hosted on the AppServer again, by using the ProxyServer1 public IP address.

Choose the  AWS Details link above these instructions, copy the ProxyServer1PublicIP value, and then paste it in a new browser tab.

The application server website loads. Notice that the application server website now says Session manager was used to edit this file.

 Note: If necessary, perform a hard refresh of the browser tab to ensure that the website is not loading from local cache.

 

Congratulations! You successfully connected to an instance that is located in a private subnet and modified a file on that instance securely. By using this approach, you can avoid the many detailed configuration steps that were required to use a bastion host to connect.

 

Submitting your work
To record your progress, choose Submit at the top of these instructions.
 

When prompted, choose Yes.

After a couple of minutes, the grades panel appears and shows you how many points you earned for each task. If the results don't display after a couple of minutes, choose Grades at the top of these instructions.

 Tip: You can submit your work multiple times. After you change your work, choose Submit again. Your last submission is recorded for this lab.

 

To find detailed feedback about your work, choose Submission Report.
 

Lab complete
Congratulations! You have completed the lab.

 

At the top of this page, choose  End Lab, and then choose Yes to confirm that you want to end the lab.

A message panel indicates that the lab is terminating.

 

To close the panel, choose Close in the upper-right corner.
 

© 2022, Amazon Web Services, Inc. and its affiliates. All rights reserved. This work may not be reproduced or redistributed, in whole or in part, without prior written permission from Amazon Web Services, Inc. Commercial copying, lending, or selling is prohibited.
